# Machine learning sommelier: predicting a wine's quality from its physicochemical properties
While a wine's quality highly depends on a person's taste, some studies have tried to predict subjective wine ratings from objective physicochemical characteristics of the wine. The current project is yet another attempt to do so, in this case by relying on simple and commonly used machine learning models. A dataset was used containing information on several wines from both the red and white varieties of Portuguese vinho verde. For each wine, information was available on eleven physicochemical properties of the wine such as acidity, pH, or alcohol content, as well as a 0-to-10 quality rating made by taking the median of three individual ratings. We tried to predict quality ratings from the available physicochemical components by training a series of machine learning models on a training set via cross-validation. For each model type, we applied grid search to explore different hyparameter values. The model with the winning hyparameters was then retrained using the whole training data and then we evaluated model performance by making predictions on the test data. A random forest outperformed the rest of the models, which included linear regression, more complex linear models (ridge regression, lasso regression, recursive feature elimination, partial least squares regression, polynomial features) and a more sophisticated tree model (XGBoost). The winning random forest model predicted data relatively well, although it fared worse with extreme ratings. When examining the importance associated to the model's predictors, we found that higher quality was mainly associated with those wines with more alcohol, less density, less volatile acidity and, only for red wine, also more sulphates.
